## Design

Be just enough.  Be useful.  Don't overreach.  Don't impose.  [Don't Repeat Yourself][DRY].

Moxie is not designed to be Maven.  It is designed to be an Ant enhancement for a Maven-dominated world.

### Dependency Management

Moxie does *not* use [Ivy][] nor [Maven][] to retrieve artifacts or to solve transitive dependencies.  It has it's own solution engine written based on the Maven, Ivy, and Gradle documentation.

Moxie employs a two-pass solver which is executed for each scope (compile, test, etc).

1. The first pass retrieves POMs for all dependencies regardless of scope by walking up and down the dependency graph.
2. The second pass generates the complete tree of resolved artifacts and then employs the *nearest* rule to eliminate duplicates in the graph.

### Version Ranges

Version ranges are the ugly duckling of Moxie.  They are only partially supported.  Maven (Aether) has a very sophisticated mechanism for dealing with version ranges which Moxie will never attempt to reproduce.  IMHO version ranges are an unnecessary implementation complexity.

When confronted with a version range specification, Moxie will resolve the highest version it can by consulting the maven-metadata.xml file.  Moxie does not consult the entire dependency graph during version range resolution.  This is a gross-simplification of the Maven version range feature.

### Moxie Root Directory

By default, Moxie stores it's retrieved artifacts and metadata in `${user.home}/.moxie`.

The directory structure takes design elements from both Maven and Gradle.  Despite my preference for Gradle's *groupId* directory structure (org.apache.ant/ant/1.8.4), the Maven 2 directory structure was adopted (org/apache/ant/ant/1.8.4) because it allows direct http or ftp serving of those folders to a Maven 2-compatible client.  This is exploited by Moxie Proxy, which can serve any Moxie root directory.

A typical Moxie root directory structure may look something like the following:
---FIXED---
[data]
  +--[com]
  +--[org]
  +--[commons-io]
    +--[commons-io]
       +--[2.2]
          -metadata.moxie
[local]
  +--[releases]
  +--[snapshots]
[lucene]
  +--[central]
  +--[releases]
  +--[restlet]
[remote]
  +--[maven.restlet.org]
  +--[repo1.maven.org_maven2]
    +--[commons-io]
      +--[commons-io]
        +--[2.2]
           -commons-io-2.2.pom
           -commons-io-2.2.pom.sha1
           -commons-io-2.2.jar
           -commons-io-2.2.jar.sha1
-moxie-toolkit-0.7.0.jar
-moxie-toolkit-0.7.1.jar
-moxie-toolkit-0.7.2.jar
---FIXED---

<dl>
	<dt>data</dt><dd>directory where Moxie stores Moxie metadata about an artifact: it's origin, record keeping dates, solved transitive dependencies, etc</dd>
	<dt>local</dt><dd>directory where artifacts you build are installed based on their release status<br/>directory where artifacts are copied to when using the <b>COPY</b> Maven cache strategy to re-use <em>${user.home}/.m2/repository</em> artifacts</dd>
	<dt>lucene</dt><dd>directory where Lucene indexes are maintained, per-registered repository<br/><i>only applies to Moxie Proxy</i></dd>
	<dt>remote</dt><dd>directory where retrieved artifacts and standard Maven metadata files are stored, per-repository</dd>
</dl>

### Reference links

- [Maven dependency resolution][mvnresolution]
- [Maven SNAPSHOT resolution][mvnsnapshot]
- [Maven's POM XML config file reference][pomxml]
- [Maven properties reference][mvnproperties]
- [Maven 3 Compatibility Notes][mvn3notes]
- [Maven settings.xml reference][mvnsettings]
- [Maven LifeCycle reference][mvnlifecycle]
- [Ivy's XML config file reference][ivyxml]
- [Ivy Main Concepts][ivyconcepts]
- [Gradle Cache Design][gradlecache]