## Java Build Toolkit for Ant

Moxie is a collection of [Ant][] tasks to turbo-charge your build scripts and facilitate building Java projects.  It's purpose is to bring some of the convenience of [Maven][] and [Gradle][] to Ant.

The Moxie binaries and this site are built with Moxie.

<div class="row">
<div class="span7">
<pre>
  [mx:init] =========================================================
  [mx:init] ${project.name}  (${project.releaseVersion})
  [mx:init] ---------------------------------------------------------
  [mx:init] project metadata
  [mx:init]            name: ${project.name}
  [mx:init]     description: ${project.description}
  [mx:init]         groupId: ${project.groupId}
  [mx:init]      artifactId: moxie
  [mx:init]         version: ${project.releaseVersion}
  [mx:init]    organization: ${project.organization}
  [mx:init]             url: ${project.url}
  [mx:init] ---------------------------------------------------------
  [mx:init] apply
  [mx:init]    rebuilt Eclipse configuration
  [mx:init]    rebuilt pom.xml
 [mx:javac] =========================================================
 [mx:javac] mx:Javac  (org.moxie:moxie, compile)
 [mx:javac] ---------------------------------------------------------
 [mx:javac] Compiling 41 source files to C:\git\moxie\build\classes
 [mx:javac] Copying 20 files to C:\git\moxie\build\classes
   [mx:jar] =========================================================
   [mx:jar] mx:Jar  (moxie-${project.releaseVersion})
   [mx:jar] ---------------------------------------------------------
   [mx:jar] Building jar: C:\git\moxie\target\moxie-${project.releaseVersion}.jar
   [mx:jar]    550 KB, generated in 460 ms
   [mx:jar] Building jar: C:\git\moxie\target\moxie-${project.releaseVersion}-sources.jar
   [mx:jar]    148 KB, generated in 80 ms
[mx:install] =========================================================
[mx:install] mx:Install  (moxie-${project.releaseVersion})
[mx:install] ---------------------------------------------------------
[mx:install] Copying 2 files to C:\Users\James Moger\.moxie\local\${project.groupId}\moxie\${project.releaseVersion}
[mx:install] generating pom for moxie-${project.releaseVersion}
[mx:install] calculating checksums for installed artifacts
</pre>
</div>

<div class="span5" style="margin-top:-10px;">
<h4>Core Package (200KB)</h4>

The %CORE% package includes the tasks necessary to retrieve & report on Maven-sourced dependencies, to generate Eclipse and IntelliJ IDEA project files, and to setup Ant build properties so you don't have to.

<br/><br/>
<h4>Pro Package (350KB)</h4>

The %PRO% package builds on the <b>core</b> package by adding Moxie Extension (<code>mx:</code>) tasks of standard Ant tasks.  These tasks use defaults derived from your <code>build.moxie</code> descriptor to compile your sources, execute your unit tests, and package your compiled code.

<br/><br/>
<h4>All Package (600KB)</h4>

The %ALL% package includes the <b>pro</b> package plus <code>mx:doc</code>, the Moxie site/document-generation tool.
<br/><br/>
<code>mx:doc</code> generates a project site or project documentation from Markdown source files and styles your output with Twitter Bootstrap.

<br/><br/>
<h4>Moxie+Ant (15MB)</h4>

Moxie+Ant is a bundled distribution of Moxie and Ant.

<br/><br/>
<h4>Moxie Proxy (7MB)</h4>

Moxie Proxy is a simple, standalone Maven artifact proxy server with a clean web ui, RSS feeds, and Lucene indexed Maven data.

<br/><br/>
<h4>License</h4>

Moxie is distributed under the Apache Software License, version 2.0.

</div>
</div>
