## Maxml

Maxml (pronounced *maximal*) looks and feels like very simple [YAML][], but it is not YAML.  Maxml is meant to be a very small and simple subset of YAML with some significant structural changes.
 
The Maxml binary package is < 20KB with debug symbols.

### Why Maxml?

I like JSON.  
I would have been satisfied with a simple, really small JSON parser.  The closest I found was [JSON-Simple](http://json-simple.googlecode.com), but that relies on a JFlex-generated parser class.  
**Verdict:** Debugging JFlex-generated code is not for humans.

I like YAML.  
I would have been satisfied with a simple, really small YAML parser.  The closest I found was [SnakeYaml][], but that is ~250KB.  
**Verdict:** Almost as large as the pro toolkit; too large.

Because Moxie needs to have a bundled parser for the `build.moxie` project descriptor and I could not find a parser that suited my needs, I wrote a custom YAML-ish parser.

### Processing Rules

1. Maxml files must be UTF-8 encoded.
2. Leading whitespace is completely irrelevant and ignored (except for text blocks) so indent all you want.
3. All lines are expected to begin with a `key:` or `"my:key:name":` sequence unless
    1. the line equals **"""** *(start/end text block)*
    2. the line equals **""** *(start/end offset text block)*
    3. the line is blank *(included in a text block, otherwise ignored)*
    4. the line starts with **#** *(comment, ignored)*
    5. the line equals **---** or **...** *(reserved, ignored)*
    6. the line equals **}** *(end map)*
    7. the line begins with a **-** dash *(list item)*
4. Values that equal **{** define a map and all subsequent lines will fill the map until a **}** line is processed    
5. Values that equals **"""** define a text block and all subsequent lines will be appended to that text block until a **"""** line is processed
6. Values that equals **""** define an offset text block and all subsequent lines will be appended to that text block until a **""** line is processed
7. All remaining values are subject to fall-through interpretation

### Value Fall-Through Interpretation

Values are deserialized based on the following algorithm.  If a step is successful the interpreted value is returned, otherwise the next step is checked until it falls-through the bottom of the check and a string is returned.

1. Empty value is an empty string
2. Explicit Null value *~*
3. Single-quoted strings *'my string'*
4. Double-quoted strings *"my string"*
5. Inline-list *[a, b, c, d]*
6. Inline-map *{a:1, b:2, c:3, d:4}*
7. Boolean interpretation *true, false, yes, no, on, off*
8. Numeric interpretation *octal* (32-bit signed integer, 64-bit signed long), *whole number* (32-bit signed integer, 64-bit signed long), *hexadecimal* (32-bit signed integer, 64-bit signed long), *decimal* (float, double)  
if the value fits in the *smaller* container, the smaller container will be used.  
e.g. 1 is an integer but 4,000,000,000 is a long
9. Date interpretation: *canonical, iso8601, simple date*
10. String
 
### Key Definitions

Maxml is a key-value serialization format.

1. Keys may only be strings
2. Keys may have colons, if they are quoted
3. Keys are case-insensitive

### Value Definitions

#### Strings

%BEGINMAXML%
# fall-through string
myString1: this is a\nstring
# explicit single-quoted string, leading/trailing quotes are stripped
myString2: 'this is another\nstring'
# explicit double-quoted string, leading/trailing quotes are stripped
myString2: "this is another\nstring"
# explicit multi-line string, leading/trailing quotes are stripped
myString3a: """
this is another string
which contains
several lines
"""
# explicit multi-line string, leading/trailing quotes are stripped
myString3b: '''
this is another string
which contains
several lines
'''
# explicit multi-line string, leading/trailing quotes are stripped
myString4: """
this is another string
which contains
several lines"""

note: ''
      this is
      an offset text block
      ''

%ENDMAXML%

#### Numerics

%BEGINMAXML%
myInt: 12345
myLong: 4000000000
myFloat1: 2.3
myFloat2: 6.0E+23
myDouble: 6.0E+56
# octals lead with 0
myOctal: 010
# hexadecimals lead with 0x
myHex: 0x12345
%ENDMAXML%

#### Booleans

%BEGINMAXML%
# true values
myBool1: true
myBool2: yes
myBool3: on
# false values
myBool4: false
myBool5: no
myBool6: off
%ENDMAXML%

#### Dates

Dates support second resolution.  When Date objects are deserialized, the msecs value is manually set to 0.

%BEGINMAXML%
# Simple Date, local timezone
myDate1: 2012-02-01
# Canonical, GMT
myDate2: 2012-02-01T15:30:45Z
# ISO8601, timezone-specified
myDate3: 2012-02-01T15:30:45-0400
%ENDMAXML%

#### Miscellaneous

%BEGINMAXML%
# null
myNull: ~
%ENDMAXML%

### Collections

Parsed collections preserve definition order.

#### Lists/Sequences
*java.util.ArrayList*

Lists may be defined using the following notation where each item in the list is defined on a separate line with a leading dash character.

%BEGINMAXML%
# multi-line list
myList2:
- src
- tests
- extra
%ENDMAXML%

Simple lists may also be defined inline as key-value pairs.  
Inline lists may not have nested collections.

%BEGINMAXML%
# inline list
myList1: [src, tests, extra]
# a list of inline lists
myList3:
- [apple, banana, strawberry]
- [celery, carrot, lettuce]
%ENDMAXML%

#### Maps
*java.util.LinkedHashMap*

Maps may be defined using the familiar curly brace notation.  
Indentation is used for readability but is otherwise ignored by the parser. 

%BEGINMAXML%
myMap1: {
    field1: test
    field2: {
        subfield1: 10
        subfield2: [a, b, c]
    }
    field3:
     - src
     - tests
     - extra
}
%ENDMAXML%

Simple maps may also be defined inline as key-value pairs.  
Inline maps may not have nested collections and they may not have strings with commas.

%BEGINMAXML%
myMap2: { field1: test, field2: 100, field3: true }
%ENDMAXML%
