## Moxie Project Descriptor

The Moxie project descriptor defines the structure, metadata, and dependencies of your project.  It is the heart of Moxie and is used by all Moxie Extension tasks.

### Project Artifact Data
---X:MEDIAWIKI---
{| class="table table-striped table-bordered table-condensed"
| groupId
|-
| artifactId
|-
| version
|}
---X:MEDIAWIKI---

### Project Metadata
---X:MEDIAWIKI---
{| class="table table-striped table-bordered table-condensed"
| name
| Name of the project
|-
| description
| description of the project
|-
| organization
| organization sponsoring development of the project
|-
| organizationUrl
| url of the organization sponsoring the project
|-
| issuesUrl
| url of the issue tracker for the project
|-
| forumUrl
| url of the forum or discussion group for the project
|-
| blogUrl
| url of the blog for the project
|-
| socialNetworkUrl
| url of the social network profile for the project
|-
| ciUrl
| url of the continuous integration server for the project
|-
| url
| url of the project web site
|-
| inceptionYear
| year the project was founded
|-
| releaseVersion
| current stable release
|-
| releaseDate
| current stable release date
|}
---X:MEDIAWIKI---

<hr/>

### Packaging
<div class="row">
<div class="span7">
Packaging defines the target binary output of the project.  This field defaults to <em>jar</em>, if not manually specified.  The value here mostly has relevance for the <code>mx:package</code> task.
<h4>Valid Packaging Types</h4>
<dl>
 <dt>pom</dt><dd></dd>
 <dt>jar</dt><dd>generates a jar file for the project</dd>
 <dt>war</dt><dd>generates a webapp war file for the project</dd>
 <dt>zip</dt><dd>generates a zip file of the jar, sources, and javadoc for the project</dd>
 <dt>tgz</dt><dd>generates a tar.gz of the jar, sources, and javadoc for the project</dd>
 <dt>tar.gz</dt><dd>generates a tar.gz of the jar, sources, and javadoc for the project</dd>
</dl>

You may also append <em>+format</em> to the packaging to create secondary packaging for your project.

</div>

<div class="span5">
---YAML---
packaging: jar
packaging: jar+zip
packaging: jar+zip+tgz
---YAML---
</div>
</div>

<hr/>

### Apply
<div class="row">
<div class="span7">
Apply is used to define extra project features.
<dl>
 <dt>pom</dt>
 <dd>creates a Maven pom.xml file</dd>
 <dt>eclipse</dt>
 <dd>creates and maintains Eclipse .project and .classpath files</dd>
 <dt>intellij</dt>
 <dd>creates and maintains IntelliJ IDEA .iml files</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<div class="span5">
---YAML---
apply: eclipse, intellij, pom
---YAML---
</div>
</div>

#### Apply: eclipse
<div class="row">
<div class="span7">
The Eclipse apply function supports a few switches to control Eclipse .project and .classpath file generation.
<dl>
 <dt>var</dt>
 <dd>Creates .classpath using the <em>MX_ROOT</em> workspace variable.  This allows you to version-control .classpath but does require the user to define an <em>MX_ROOT</em> workspace variable pointing to <em>~/.moxie</em> or wherever they would like to establish their Moxie root.</dd>
 <dt>groovy</dt>
 <dd>Adds the Groovy plugin reference to .classpath and the Groovy Nature to .project.</dd>
</dl>
</div>
<div class="span5">
---YAML---
apply: 'eclipse:+var+groovy'
---YAML---
</div>
</div>

<hr/>

### Parent

<div class="row">
<div class="span7">
In a mutl-module project setup, a module may inherit settings from a parent build.moxie descriptor by specifying it's relative location.
</div>

<div class="span5">
---YAML---
parent: ../build.moxie 
---YAML---
</div>
</div>

<hr/>

### Licenses

You can specify the project licenses in the *licenses* setting.  This setting is currently only used during POM generation.

---YAML---
licenses:
- {
    name: 'Apache ASL v2.0'
    url: 'http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html'
  }
---YAML---

<hr/>

### Developers

You can specify the project developers in the *developers* setting.  This setting is currently only used during POM generation.

---YAML---
developers:
- {
  id: james
  name: 'James Moger'
  url: 'https://plus.google.com/u/0/116428776452027956920'
  organization: 'James Moger'
  organizationUrl: 'http://www.jamesmoger.com'
  roles: developer
  }
---YAML---

<hr/>

### SCM

You can specify the project SCM information in the *scm* setting.  This setting is currently only used during POM generation.

---YAML---
scm: {
  connection: 'scm:git:git://github.com/gitblit/moxie.git'
  developerConnection: 'scm:git:https://github.com/gitblit/moxie.git'
  url: 'http://gitblit.github.com/moxie'
  tag: HEAD
  }
---YAML---

<hr/>

### Registered Repositories

This section is used to define remote artifact repositories.  Currently only http/https repositories are supported.

The default *connectTimeout* is 20 seconds.  
The default *readTimeout* is 1800 seconds (30 mins).

#### Affinities

If a repository specifies one or more affinities and a dependency matches one of those affinities, that repository will be used first during dependency or metadata resolution of that artifact.  This allows you to control the efficiency of the resolution process by boosting the importance of a specific repository.

In the following example, the *Restlet* repository has an affinity for all artifacts belonging to the *org.restlet* groupId.  During resolution, the Restlet repository is checked first for all *org.restlet*.

---YAML---
registeredRepositories:
- { id: 'central', url: 'http://repo1.maven.org/maven2' }
- { id: 'mavencentral', url: 'http://repo1.maven.org/maven2' }
- { id: 'codehaus', url: 'http://repository.codehaus.org' }
- {
    id: 'sonatype-oss'
    url: 'https://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/public'
    # Snapshot Purge Policy
    revisionRetentionCount: 1
    revisionPurgeAfterDays: 0
  }
- { 
    id: 'restlet'
    url: 'http://maven.restlet.org'
    # Snapshot Purge Policy
    revisionRetentionCount: 1
    revisionPurgeAfterDays: 0
    # Artifact affinitities
    affinity: [ 'org.restlet' ]
    # seconds to wait till connected
    connectTimeout: 20
    # seconds to wait on read
    readTimeout: 1800
    # authentication credentials
    username: 'someuser'
    password: 'mypassword'
  }
---YAML---

<hr/>

### Repositories

<div class="row">
<div class="span7">
The repositories settings defines the list of registeredRepositories from which to source artifacts.  By default, only MavenCentral is specified, however Moxie ships with several other registeredRepositories including sonatype-oss, codehaus, & restlet.
</div>

<div class="span5">
---YAML---
repositories: 'central'
---YAML---
</div>
</div>

<hr/>

### Modules

<div class="row">
<div class="span7">
<b>Standard Project</b><br/>
If the project has valid source directories, then the modules section is used to define referenced source projects.  The source directories from these referenced projects are included on the sourcepath of the current project.  Likewise, the dependencies of those referenced projects are included on the compile classpath of the current project.
<p> </p>
The projects are assumed to be located relative to the current project.  You may use an Ant or enviromental property as part of the module reference.
<p> </p>
All referenced modules must have a <code>build.moxie</code> descriptor unless a different descriptor is manually specified with the @file syntax.
<p> </p>
<b>Parent Project</b><br/>
If the project has no source directories then the modules section is used only for IDE settings generation.
</div>

<div class="span5">
---YAML---
modules: 
- 'project1'
- 'project2'
- '${myprojects}/project3' @build2.moxie
---YAML---
</div>
</div>

<hr/>

### Source Directories

<div class="row">
<div class="span7">
Source directories define where to find your source code.  Each source folder must specify a scope.
<p> </p>
<h4>Valid Scopes</h4>
<dl>
	<dt>compile</dt><dd></dd>
	<dt>test</dt><dd></dd>
	<dt>site</dt><dd></dd>
</dl>
Dependencies, source directories, and resource directories may also be tagged as belonging to a group by using the <i>:tag</i> syntax.  Several <code>mx</code> tasks support these tagged subsets.

<div class="alert alert-info">
<b>Note:</b> Moxie only supports a single <em>site</em> scoped source directory.
</div>
</div>

<div class="span5">
---YAML---
sourceDirectories: 
- compile 'src/main/core' :mytag
- compile 'src/main/pro'
- compile 'src/main/all'
- compile 'src/client/java' :mytag
- { scope: 'test', dir: 'src/test/java' }
---YAML---
</div>
</div>

<hr/>

### Resource Directories

<div class="row">
<div class="span7">
Resource directories define where to find your resource files (images, css, etc).  Each resource directory must specify a scope.
<br/>
<h4>Valid Scopes</h4>
<dl>
	<dt>compile</dt><dd></dd>
	<dt>test</dt><dd></dd>
	<dt>site</dt><dd></dd>
</dl>
Dependencies, source directories, and resource directories may also be tagged as belonging to a group by using the <i>:tag</i> syntax.  Several <code>mx</code> tasks support these tagged subsets.

<div class="alert alert-info">
<b>Note:</b> Moxie only supports a single <em>site</em> scoped resource directory.
</div>

</div>

<div class="span5">
---YAML---
resourceDirectories: 
- compile 'src/main/resources'
- compile 'src/client/resources' :mytag
- test 'src/test/resources'
- site 'src/site/resources'
---YAML---
</div>
</div>

<hr/>

### Properties

<div class="row">
<div class="span7">
Properties can be used in the <em>dependencyManagement</em> and <em>dependencies</em> section.  They are also exported to Ant as properties.
</div>

<div class="span5">
---YAML---
properties: {
  jgit.version : 1.3.0.201202151440-r
}
---YAML---
</div>
</div>

<hr/>

### Dependency Management

<div class="row">
<div class="span7">
Managed dependencies are used to specify versions of dependencies if those versions are not specified in the <em>dependencies</em> list.
</div>

<div class="span5">
---YAML---
dependencyManagement:
- 'org.apache.ant:ant:1.8.3'
- 'junit:junit:4.11'
---YAML---
</div>
</div>

<hr/>

### Dependencies

<div class="row">
<div class="span7">
Dependencies can be defined using Gradle-style coordinates.
---FIXED---
groupId:artifactId:version
---FIXED---

Each dependency must also have an assigned scope.
<br/>
<h4>Valid Scopes</h4>
<dl>
	<dt>compile</dt><dd>added to the compile classpath</dd>
	<dt>provided</dt><dd>added to the compile classpath but not distributed with project</dd>
	<dt>runtime</dt><dd>added to the runtime classpath</dd>
	<dt>test</dt><dd>added to the test classpath</dd>
	<dt>system</dt><dd>added to all classpaths</dd>
	<dt>build</dt><dd>added to Moxie's runtime classpath</dd>
</dl>

Dependencies, source directories, and resource directories may also be tagged as belonging to a group by using the <i>:tag</i> syntax.  Several <code>mx</code> tasks support these tagged subsets.
</div>

<div class="span5">
---YAML---
dependencies:
- compile 'org.apache.ant:ant'
- compile 'com.acme:widget:1.2.3' :mytag
- test 'junit'
---YAML---
</div>
</div>

#### Classifiers

<div class="row">
<div class="span7">

Moxie supports resolution by classifier by appending the classifier to the standard artifact coordinates.
</div>

<div class="span5">
---YAML---
- compile 'org.apache.ant:ant.1.8.4:jdk14'
---YAML---
</div>
</div>

#### Exclusions

Sometimes it is desirable to specify exclusions from a dependency's graph.  There are two ways to exclude dependencies.

<div class="row">
<div class="span7">
##### @ext

The `@ext` syntax will exclude all dependencies of a dependency.  To use this syntax you must specify the extension of the artifact to retrieve.
</div>

<div class="span5">
---YAML---
- compile 'org.apache.ant:ant.1.8.4' @jar
---YAML---
</div>
</div>

<div class="row">
<div class="span7">
##### Discrete Exclusions

You may also specify exclusions by <code>groupId</code> and <code>groupId:artifactId</code>.
</div>

<div class="span5">
---YAML---
- compile 'org.apache.ant:ant.1.8.4' !commons-logging
---YAML---
</div>
</div>

<div class="row">
<div class="span7">
#### GoogleCode Dependencies

Sometimes useful artifacts are not available from a Maven repository.

Moxie supports artifact retrieval from GoogleCode using a syntax similar to Gradle-style Maven coordinates.
---FIXED---
<googlecode>:projectName:filename
---FIXED---

</div>

<div class="span5">
---YAML---
repositories: central, googlecode
dependencies:
- compile '<googlecode>:iciql:iciql-0.7.0.jar'
---YAML---
</div>
</div>

<hr/>

### Dependency Directory

<div class="row">
<div class="span7">
You may optionally specify a project-relative directory to copy dependencies to.  If you decide to do this AND you are generating Eclipse or IntelliJ IDEA project files, your project files will reference these relatively located jar files.
</div>

<div class="span5">
---YAML---
dependencyDirectory: ext
---YAML---
</div>
</div>
<hr/>

### Dependency Name Pattern

When you are using the `dependencyDirectory` setting you may also control the destination name of the project-relative artifacts.

---YAML---
dependencyNamePattern: [artifactId]-[version](-[classifier]).[ext]
---YAML---

<hr/>

## Advanced Settings

These settings can be used to manipulate released POMs and/or to enable clever dependency tricks.  Both of these features are used internally by Moxie.

### Dependency Aliases

Dependency aliases allow you to specify shorthand notation for a dependency which will be resolved at runtime to the full coordinates.

---YAML---
dependencyAliases: {
	junit: 'junit:junit'
	testng: 'org.testng:testng'
	cobertura: 'net.sourceforge.cobertura:cobertura'
	emma: 'emma:emma'
	jacoco: 'org.jacoco:org.jacoco.ant'
	'mx:jgit' : 'org.eclipse.jgit:org.eclipse.jgit'
	'mx:markdownpapers' : 'org.tautua.markdownpapers:markdownpapers-core'
	'mx:rhino' : 'org.mozilla:rhino'
}
---YAML---

### Dependency Overrides

Dependency overrides are used to redefine the dependencies of released/published POMs from other projects.  The most common use case would be to add undeclared dependencies for old POMs or to purposefully exclude dependencies from specific scopes.

Moxie uses this feature to simplify specification of "build" scope dependencies so that enabling Cobertura, Emma, or TestNG is as easy as adding a single build dependency.

You must declare the full coordinates of the dependency to tweak.  Property substitution is prohibited.  You may specify the scopes for which your override applies.  If no scope is specified ALL scopes are assumed.

<p class="text-error">Be very careful when using dependency overrides!</p>

---YAML---
dependencyOverrides: {

    # cobertura: redefine ant as optional for build scope
    'net.sourceforge.cobertura:cobertura:1.9.4.1' : {
        scope: build
        dependencies:
        - compile 'oro:oro:2.0.8'
        - compile 'asm:asm:3.0'
        - compile 'asm:asm-tree:3.0'
        - compile 'log4j:log4j:1.2.9'
        - compile 'org.apache.ant:ant:1.7.0' optional
    }

    # emma: add emma_ant dependency for build scope
    'emma:emma:2.1.5320' : {
        scope: build
        dependencies:
        - compile 'emma:emma_ant:2.1.5320'
    }
}
---YAML---
