## settings.moxie

The `settings.moxie` file is used to control Moxie's behavior across all builds.

### Proxies
Moxie automatically uses all proxy definitions <u>from your <b>local Maven settings</b></u> *(~/.m2/settings.xml)*.  Moxie also supports proxy definitions in it's own <b>local Moxie settings</b> *(~/.moxie/settings.moxie)*.

Unlike Maven, which assumes you will proxy everything and requires you to manually exclude hostnames (i.e. *opt-out*), Moxie supports *opt-in* proxy definitions which allows you to specify what repositories will be proxied by a proxy definition. If this is undesirable, Moxie also supports Maven-style *opt-out* proxy definitions too. 

If you want to define proxy settings, copy and edit one of the following example proxy definitions to a new text file: *~/.moxie/settings.moxie*

#### Example standard network proxy configuration

All repositories are proxied through this connection.

---YAML---
proxies:
- {
    id: 'myproxy'
    active: true
    protocol: 'http'
    host: 'proxy.somewhere.com'
    port: 8080
    username: 'proxyuser'
    password: 'somepassword'
  }
---YAML---

#### Example Moxie Proxy configuration

Only the identified repositories are proxied through this connection.

---YAML---
proxies:
- {
    id: 'moxieProxy'
    active: true
    protocol: 'http'
    host: 'moxie.somewhere.com'
    port: 8081
    username: 'proxyuser'
    password: 'somepassword'
    repositories: "central, mavencentral, restlet, codehaus, sonatype-oss"
  }
---YAML---

<hr />

### Registered Repositories

This section is used to define remote artifact repositories.  Currently only http/https repositories are supported.

The default *connectTimeout* is 20 seconds.  
The default *readTimeout* is 1800 seconds (30 mins).

---YAML---
registeredRepositories:
- { id: 'codehaus', url: 'http://repository.codehaus.org' }
- { id: 'central', url: 'https://repo1.maven.org/maven2' }
- { id: 'mavencentral', url: 'https://repo1.maven.org/maven2' }
- {
    id: 'sonatype-oss'
    url: 'https://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/public'
    # Snapshot Purge Policy
    revisionRetentionCount: 1
    revisionPurgeAfterDays: 0
  }
- {
    id: 'restlet'
    url: 'https://maven.restlet.org'
    # Snapshot Purge Policy
    revisionRetentionCount: 1
    revisionPurgeAfterDays: 0
    # Artifact affinities
    affinity: [ 'org.restlet' ]
    # seconds to wait till connected
    connectTimeout: 20
    # seconds to wait on read
    readTimeout: 1800
    # authentication credentials
    username: 'someuser'
    password: 'mypassword'
  }
---YAML---

<hr />

---EXCLUDE---
### Parallel Artifact Downloads
<div class="row">
<div class="span7">
Moxie can download multiple artifacts concurrently.  It does this using a fixed thread pool equal to the number of processors in the system.  POM retrieval does not use this parallelization feature.  POM retrieval is single-threaded because Moxie must walk up and down the dependency graph making parallelization non-trivial since it is possible to resolve the same POM between different threads.
</div>

<div class="span5">
---YAML---
parallelDownloads: false
---YAML---
</div>
</div>

<hr />
---EXCLUDE---

### Fail Fast

<div class="row">
<div class="span7">
Should the build immediately fail if an artifact can not be immediately resolved from the remote repositories or the local cache?
</div>

<div class="span5">
---YAML---
failFastOnArtifactResolution: true
---YAML---
</div>
</div>

<hr />

### Metadata Update Policy

<div class="row">
<div class="span7">
Specify the metadata update check policy for LATEST, RELEASE, and SNAPSHOT.
<dl>
  <dt>always</dt><dd>always check when for newer versions</dd>
  <dt>never</dt><dd>never check when for newer versions</dd>
  <dt>daily</dt><dd>(default) - check on the first run of the day (local time)</dd>
  <dt>interval:NNN</dt><dd>check every NNN minutes (default is 60 mins)</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<div class="span5">
---YAML---
updatePolicy: 'daily'
---YAML---
</div>
</div>

<hr />

### Snapshot Purge Policy

<div class="row">
<div class="span7">
Default minimum count of snapshot revisions to keep.<br/>
The minimum acceptable value is 1.<br/>
The maximum acceptable value is is 100.
</div>

<div class="span5">
---YAML---
revisionRetentionCount: 1
---YAML---
</div>
</div>

<hr />

<div class="row">
<div class="span7">
If the count of snapshot revisions exceeds the specified retention count, then delete all snapshot revisions older than this count of days.<br/>
The maximum acceptable value is 1000.
</div>

<div class="span5">
---YAML---
revisionPurgeAfterDays: 0
---YAML---
</div>
</div>

<hr />

### Maven Cache Strategy

<div class="row">
<div class="span7">
Defines how to use the <em>${user.home}/.m2/repository</em> folder.
<br />
Options are:
<dl>
  <dt>IGNORE</dt><dd>ignore Maven cache entirely</dd>
  <dt>LINK</dt><dd>use Maven cache artifacts directly, not recommended</dd>
  <dt>COPY</dt><dd>copy Maven cache artifacts into Moxie's local repository</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<div class="span5">
---YAML---
mavenCacheStrategy: 'IGNORE'
---YAML---
</div>
</div>
