## Moxie Java Project Build Toolkit

<span class="label label-warning">alpha: Not-production ready</span>
Moxie is a small collection of ANT tasks to facilitate building Java projects.

The Moxie binaries and this site are built with Moxie.

### Core Package (45KB)

The core package includes the Setup task and some simple processing tasks.

#### [MaxSetup](./maxsetup.html)

* Dependency retrieval from a local Maven repository, local Moxie repository, or content-addressable remote Maven repositories like MavenCentral.
* Eclipse .classpath generation

#### [MaxExtract](./maxextract.html)

Pull the contents of a field from a source file.  
This is useful for pulling a version identifier from source that you want to use in your build script.

### Pro Package (90KB)

The pro package adds some Git tasks and a fork of the super-useful GenJar task.

The Git tasks depend on [JGit](http://eclipse.org/jgit) which is resolved automatically either from your local Maven repository, your local Moxie repository, or MavenCentral.

#### [MaxCommitId](./maxcommitid.html)

Determines the Git commit hash of HEAD for the repository.

#### [MaxGhPages](./maxghpages.html)

Updates the gh-pages branch of a Git repository with content from the specified folder.

#### [MaxJar](./maxjar.html)

This is a fork of the super-useful GenJar.

### All Package (285KB)

The all package includes the pro package plus the following tasks.

#### [MaxDoc](./maxdoc.html)

Generates a project site or project documentation from markdown source files.

* Uses Twitter Bootstrap 2.0 for the generated content
* Optionally injects GoogleCode Prettify for syntax highlighting
* Optionally injects FancyBox for JavaScript-enhanced image gallery viewing

The MaxDoc task depends on [MarkdownPapers](http://markdown.tautua.org) which is resolved automatically either from your local Maven repository, your local Moxie repository, or MavenCentral. 

### License

Moxie is distributed under the Apache Software License, version 2.0.